---
sidebar_position: 1
---

Here is the usual pattern of getting the source from a git repository in AWS CodePipeline.

In the pipeline, we use AWS CodeStart to connect to a repo and get the source. Then, we pass it to the other stages, like deploy or publish.

For some unknown reasons, CodePipeline downloads the source as a zip from the repo instead of doing a git clone. This means the resource has no git meta data. Therefore, it doesn’t work with semantic-release (which requires it to be run in a git repository).

Hence, you will see this error below if you are trying to run npx semantic-release in a downstream CodeBuild job.

The semantic-release command must be executed from a Git repository.
...
Please verify your CI configuration to make sure the semantic-release command is executed from the root of the cloned repository.

The easiest approach is to use git clone in the publish job where you are calling the semantic-release command.

Here is an example that uses Bitbucket. It works with any git repo. By setting the environment variable GIT_CREDENTIALS, the semantic release can also use it for versioning and change-logging.

```bash
export BITBUCKET_USER=yourusername
export BB_TOKEN=yourpassword
export GIT_CREDENTIALS=$BITBUCKET_USER:$BB_TOKEN
git clone https://$GIT_CREDENTIALS@bitbucket.org/user/repo.git
npx semantic-release --no-ci
```

Alternatively, you can copy and paste .git (the folder containing the git repo metadata) into the source from the early CodePipeline step. That’s fine, too.

(2022-02-26)
