---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Useful DataStage Linux Commands

In this post, we will explore useful DataStage Commands. As an example, I made the DataStage installation path as ‘/opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/PXEngine’. This is probably not the same in your DataStage server. Make sure to get the right installation path.

Start and Stop jobmonapp (DataStage Job Monitor application).
Unlocking DataStage job
Shutting down and restarting DataStage (ISS) Services
Start the workload manager (vlmserver in the console)

(1) How to start and stop jobmonapp

Job monitor default runs on port 13401. Run the command below.

```bash
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/PXEngine/java
./jobmoninit stop /opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/PXEngine
./jobmoninit start /opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/PXEngine
```

(2) How to unlock DataStage job

Follow the step below or wait for 15 minutes (jobs usually get unlocked automatically after 15 minute).

```bash
cd $DSHOME
. ./dsenv
./bin/uvsh
LOGTO <Your Project Name>
```

# run

# get offending job details and note them down somewhere.

LIST.READU EVERY
LOGTO UV
UNLOCK INODE inode# USER user# ALL
Then, use Q to quit.

(3-1) How to shut down DataStage Services

First of all, you need to shut down the engine server. Then, shut down the services server. The script has to be run in the same order as below.

# On the engine server

```bash
DSHOME=/opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/DSEngine; export DSHOME
. $DSHOME/dsenv
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/DSEngine/bin/
./uv -admin -stop
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/ASBNode/bin
./NodeAgents.sh stop

# On the services server
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/ASBServer/bin
./MetadataServer.sh stop
```

(3-2) How to restart DataStage Services

To restart the services, you need to first start the services server and then the engine server.

# Services Server

```bash
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/ASBServer/bin
./MetadataServer.sh start

# Engine Server
DSHOME=/opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/DSEngine; export DSHOME
. $DSHOME/dsenv
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/ASBNode/bin
./NodeAgents.sh start
cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/DSEngine/bin/
./uv -admin -start
```

In case the console gives the DSDB error, then run the command below:

`/opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/DSODB/bin $ ./DSAppWatcher.sh -start`

(4) How to start the workload manager

Note that the start has to be the background process.

`cd /opt/IBM/InformationServer/Server/DSWLM`

# to start WLM:

`nohup ./startwlm.sh`

# to stop WLM:

`nohup ./stopwlm.sh`
