---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# User Management with MongoDB

MongoDB does not have authentication out of box. When you install it, the first thing you have to do is to create an admin user in the admin database and enable authentication.

After installation, you can get into MongoDB with the mongo command from the Mongo Shell.

mongo
Let’s create an admin user in the admin database. In MongoDB, the database you create your user is used for authentication only. It can have access privileges to other databases. It really does not matter which database you create a user unless you want to create a user who has access to only a particular database.

First of all, let’s create a root user & admin user. We will use admin user to create other credentials.

(1) Root and Admin User Creation

```
use admin

db.createUser({
  user: "root",
  pwd: "your_password",
  roles: ["root"]
})

db.createUser({
  user: "admin",
  pwd: "your_password",
  roles: ["readWriteAnyDatabase", "clusterAdmin",
  "userAdminAnyDatabase", "dbAdminAnyDatabase"]
})
```

(2) Enable Authentication

Once the admin user is created, let’s restart MongoDB with authentication enabled. After restarting the DB server, you cannot do any operations if you are not an authenticated user. The better way is change the config file in this post.

`mongod --auth --port 27017 --dbpath /data/db`

Once the authentication is enabled, connect to database as admin

`mongo admin --host localhost --port 27017 -u admin -p your_password`

(3) User Creations

We will create 3 types of users below.

Writer: access to read & write operations to all databases
Readonly : access to read operations to all databases
Special: Read access to all databases and write access to usermanaged

```
# (1) Create Writer Credential
use admin
db.createUser ({
  user: "writer",
  pwd: "your_password",
  roles: ["readWriteAnyDatabase"]
})


# (2) Create Readonly Credential
use admin
db.createUser ({
  user: "readonly",
  pwd: "your_password",
  roles: ["readAnyDatabase"]
})

# (3) Create a special Credential
use admin
db.createUser(
   {
     user: "special",
     pwd: "your_password",
     roles:
       [
         { role: "readWrite", db: "usermanaged" },
         "readAnyDatabase"
       ]
   }
)
```

(4) Test Credentials

Let’s test each users by logging into the database to see if you can do the desired operations. Make sure to specify the database (admin) where you created them as the first argument in the mongo command.

```bash
mongo admin --host localhost --port 27017 -u root -p your_password
mongo admin --host localhost --port 27017 -u writer -p your_password
mongo admin --host localhost --port 27017 -u readonly -p your_password
mongo admin --host localhost --port 27017 -u special -p your_password
```

That’s it. Depending on your requirements, you need to set up a finer access control than these examples. For further details, you can check out the documentations below.

Create Users with MongoDB
MongoDB Built-In Roles

(2018-04-23)
